Smart Git Sync (#69)
amplication/amplication-docs: day-zero/smart-git-sync.mdx

---
title: 'Smart Git Sync'
description: 'Learn how Amplication facilitates seamless Git integration for managing every resource in your organization'
icon: 'git-alt'
---

<Frame>
    <img src="/images/day-zero/sync-with-github.svg" />
</Frame>

**Smart Git Sync** automatically synchronizes changes made between Amplication and your preferred Git repository.

> It automatically tracks and commits changes to a dedicated `amplication` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It automatically tracks and commits changes to a dedicated branch on the connected repository. When multiple resources are connected to the same repository, Amplication manages the changes for each resource in a separate branch. 
```

Whether you're adding a new resource or making a change to an existing one, Smart Git Sync ensures that all changes are systematically tracked, committed, and easy to review.

<Tip>
The `amplication` branch should be viewed as your streamlined pipeline for Amplication-driven updates. Let your developers focus on business logic and **Smart Git Sync** will handle the rest.
</Tip>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Base branch

By default Amplication uses the repository default branch as the base branch for the Pull Request.
You can change this by settings the "Git Base Branch" in the Git Settings section

<img width="637" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/833b117f-7996-4438-8923-f7f93f5f781a" />

e.g. If you want to merge the changes from Amplication into the `develop` branch instead of `main` you can use the value  of the field to `develop`.

```

## How Smart Git Sync Works

<Steps>
  <Step title="1. Central Branch Creation" icon="diagram-project" iconType="solid">

>     Amplication establishes an `amplication` branch in each targeted repository. This branch becomes the **single source of truth** for automatically generated code updates, ensuring uniform standards across all services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Amplication establishes a branch per each resource. This branch becomes the **single source of truth** for automatically generated code updates, ensuring uniform standards across all resources.
```

  </Step>

  <Step title="2. Automatic Commit Generation" icon="file-signature" iconType="solid">

>     Whenever changes are made in an Amplication project—such as adding a new entity, updating an API endpoint, or modifying configurations—**Smart Git Sync** collects these changes and commits them to the `amplication` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Whenever changes are made in an Amplication resourc - such as adding a plugin, adding a new entity, or modifying configurations—**Smart Git Sync** collects these changes and commits them to the `amplication` branch.
```

  </Step>

  <Step title="3. Pull Request Creation" icon="code-pull-request" iconType="solid">
    If there isn’t an open pull request from `amplication` to your default branch (e.g., `main`), Amplication automatically creates one. The title and message come from the commit description you provide in Amplication’s UI (or from a default template, if none is provided).
  </Step>

  <Step title="4. Review & Merge" icon="handshake" iconType="solid">

>     Your team merges the PR into the default branch.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Your team merges the PR into the base branch.  
```

    All organization-wide standards, best practices, or security patches you’ve defined in Amplication are consistently and seamlessly **infused into your codebase** with no manual overhead required.
  </Step>
</Steps>

> <Tip>
> Keep the `amplication` branch intact. Avoid deleting it. If conflicts arise, resolve them **on** the `amplication` branch. This preserves consistency and prevents errors.
> </Tip>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Supported Git Providers

> <CardGroup cols={3}>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amplication can work with any git provider, online or on-prem 
<CardGroup cols={3}>
```

    <Card title="Bitbucket" icon="bitbucket" iconType="brands" href="/day-zero/sync-with-bitbucket"></Card>
    <Card title="Azure DevOps" icon="microsoft" iconType="brands" href="/day-zero/sync-with-azure-devops"></Card>
    <Card title="AWS CodeCommit" icon="aws" iconType="brands" href="/day-zero/sync-with-aws-codecommit"></Card>
</CardGroup>

## Commit Messages & Visibility

Each commit that **Smart Git Sync** generates contains a clear build message. This message:

- **Identifies** exactly what changed in Amplication.  
- **Links back** to the Amplication build logs so your engineering managers or security auditors can see detailed records of how the code was produced or updated.  
- **Initiates** or updates the associated pull request for easier peer review and consistent merging into the default branch.

<Frame>
    <img src="/images/day-zero/github-pull-request.png" />
</Frame>

<Info>
If you don't provide a custom commit message in the pending changes section, Amplication will automatically generate a default message.
</Info>

## Next Steps

<Steps>
  <Step title="Choose Your Git Provider">

>     Amplication supports [GitHub](/sync-with-github), [GitLab](/sync-with-gitlab), [Bitbucket](/sync-with-bitbucket), [AWS CodeCommit](/sync-with-aws-codecommit), and others.

Reviewer: I am missing Azure devops
